---
firstname: Kun
lastname: Chen
role: Professor
group: Faculty
image: doc/image/Kun-Chen.jpg
link: http://kun-chen.uconn.edu/
---

Kun Chen is a Professor in the Department of Statistics at the
University of Connecticut (UConn) and a Research Fellow at the Center
for Population Health, UConn Health Center. He has been a Fellow of
the American Statistical Association (ASA) since 2022 and an Elected
Member of the International Statistical Institute (ISI) since 2016.
His research mainly focuses on large-scale multivariate statistical
learning, statistical machine learning, and healthcare analytics. He
has extensive interdisciplinary research experience in several fields,
including ecology, biology, agriculture, and population health. Dr.
Chen has graduated with over ten PhDs and received Recognition for
Teaching Excellence at UConn multiple times. He has also been active
in professional services. In particular, he was a core member in
establishing the New England Statistical Society (NESS) in 2017 and
served as its secretary until 2021. Currently, he serves as the
Program Chair for the ASA Section on Statistical Computing and
Vice-President for the ASA Connecticut Chapter.

<br>

Dr. Chen received his B.Econ. in Finance and Dual B.S. in Computer
Science & Technology from the University of Science & Technology of
China in 2003, M.S. in Statistics from the University of Alaska
Fairbanks in 2007, and Ph.D. in Statistics from the University of Iowa
in 2011. Before joining UConn, he was on the faculty of Kansas State
University from 2011 to 2013.
